# Stock_analysis

## Overview of Project
The purpose of this analysis was to create a useful tool for Steve to make educated decisions about the stocks to invest in for his portfolio. The tool created allows him to analyze an entire dataset from the years 2017 and 2018 and can even used to process information from other years if that information is obtained at a later time. There is a great deal of information that needs to be processed when analyzing stocks so this tool we created for Steve will surely help him process that information. The tool is useful because not only did we create something that can produce the total daily volume and annual return on a company's stock, but we also integrated a function that determines how long the code takes to execute and output the information. 
Steve was interested in the stocks from twelve different companies and how they performed during 2017 and 2018. Those stocks were analyzed using the tool we created to compare the total daily volume and the annual return on those stocks, and then that information could be used by Steve to help anticapte how those stocks may perform in the future. We were able to create two different methods for the information to be analyzed, which resulted in identical results, however the time tracker was able to determine that one of those methods was faster than the other. 

## Results
The results (Image: VBA_Challenge_2017_Table) indicate that 11 out of the 12 companies had a positive return in 2017, and only one company (TERP) had a negative return. Those results were drastically different from the following year in 2018 (Image: VBA_Challenge_2018_Table) because 10 of the companies had negative returns, while only two (ENPH and RUN) had positive returns. Steve may want to consider an investment in ENPH and RUN since those companies maintained a positive return during 2017 and 2018. More so, those companies had what appears to be a significant increase in total daily volume trading of their stock throughout both those years. The charts "VBA_Challenge_Total_Daily_Volume_Chart" and "VBA_Challenge_Sum_of_Return_Chart" were also made as a way to observe a side by side and visually comparative analysis; they can be referenced in the Resources folder. 

Furthermore, because the tool contains two different methods of obtaining the same result, the time taken for each of those methods was also calculatd thanks to the tool we created for Steve. It was determined that the elongated code used for 2017 ran in 0.875 seconds (Image:VBA_Challenge_2017_Original_Script) and the elongated code for 2018 ran in 0.8516 seconds (Image:VBA_Challenge_2018_Original_Script). The refactored code used for 2017 ran in 0.1484 seconds (Image: VBA_Challenge_2017) and the refactored code for 2018 ran in 0.1563 seconds (Image:VBA_Challenge_2018). It is clear that the refactored code processed the information faster and produced quicker results. 

## Summary
Based on the results that were obtained, the stocks that Steve analyzed performed better in 2017 than in 2018. There were also only two companies that performed well in both 2017 and 2018, whereas the rest of the 10 companies did well in 2017 but had a negative return in 2018. Steve can use that information when purchasing stocks and evaluating his current investments. The tool we created was able to obtain useful information and now Steve can also use the tool in the future when he analyzes stocks from other years. There is much more information that can be analyzed but at least Steve has one useful tool at his disposal when analyzing stocks. 
Two different methods were integrated into the tool created for Steve and both were able to obtain the same results. One method utilized a longer code, while the other method involved a refactored and shorter code. The time counter revealed that the refactored code processed the information faster which is definitely more useful for Steve especially if he decides to start analyzing much more information. Clearly, speed is one of the advantages of the refactored code and that can make all the difference in certain situations. Compared to the original VBA script, the refactored code can help process more information, like stocks, more quickly and therefore can help execute decisions faster. Another advantage of refactored code is the fact that shorter and more organized code means that there is less code to review for errors and it makes those errors easier to find. Refactored code still can have disadvantages and one of them is that it can be hard to apply code to other uses since the code will be very consice and specific. In other words, the code may be short but it was made specifically for that one function so it may be hard to apply it in a different scenario. Unlike the refactored code, the original VBA script may be able to have more broad applications when analyzing other factors of stocks or stocks from other years. 
How do these pros and cons apply to refactoring the original VBA script
